= Cheapfares: Cheap rail fares

== Summary
Cheapfares is a Ruby command line utility for retrieving and displaying UK rail fare information. Specify start and finish stations, an earliest travel date, and the number of weeks of price information to check. The utility reports the highest and lowest prices in the period, and the dates on which prices are in the bottom quartile. Data is saved to an excel spreadsheet.

== Installing

To install Cheapfares, use the following command:

  $gem install cheapfares

Set defaults in 'cheapfares.config':

  origin:       'EUS' # default departure station
  destination:  'EDB' # default destination station
  weeks:         12   # default weeks of information to retrieve

== Usage

Cheapfares is a command line tool. To get help, type:

  $cheapfares

For help on a specific command, type:

  $cheapfares -h [command name]

== Sample output

  $ cheapfares update
  Saved price data to ./prices.json. Exiting.

  $ cheapfares report

  FARE DATA:
  =====================================
  Dates           : 2017-07-25
                  : 2017-10-17
                  : 12 weeks
  Origin          : EUS
  Destination     : EDB
  -------------------------------------
  Highest         : £71.00 (2017-08-04)
  Lowest          : £28.00 (2017-09-06)
  Bottom quartile : £38.75
  -------------------------------------
  2017-08-12      : £30.00
  2017-08-30      : £35.50
  2017-08-31      : £30.00
  2017-09-01      : £30.00
  2017-09-02      : £30.00
  2017-09-05      : £30.00

  etc.

  $ cheapfares list -c edinburgh

  Stations containing 'Edinburgh':
  --------------------------------
  EDB: Edinburgh
  EGY: Edinburgh Gateway
  EDP: Edinburgh Park

== Changelog

See {file:CHANGELOG} for a list of changes.

== Licence

Cheapfares © 2017 by Richard Lyon. Cheapfares is licensed under the MIT license except for some files which come from the RDoc/Ruby distributions. Please see the {file:LICENSE} and {file:LEGAL} documents for more information.
